chore(backend, clerk-js): Deprecate metadata updates in user update methods (#8587)
clerk/javascript: .changeset/route-unsafe-metadata-to-merge-endpoint.md

---
'@clerk/clerk-js': patch
'@clerk/shared': patch
---

> Deprecate `unsafeMetadata` on `user.update()`. Use `user.updateMetadata({ unsafeMetadata })` for partial updates (deep merge) instead. The parameter continues to work — metadata is now routed through `PATCH /v1/me/metadata`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deprecate passing `unsafeMetadata` to `user.update()`.

Use `user.updateMetadata()` when you want to partially update unsafe metadata with deep-merge semantics:

~~~ts
await user.updateMetadata({
  unsafeMetadata: { onboardingComplete: true },
});
~~~

user.update({ unsafeMetadata })` continues to work for now and preserves its existing full-replacement behavior:

~~~ts
await user.update({
  unsafeMetadata: { theme: 'dark' },
});
~~~

New code should prefer `user.updateMetadata({ unsafeMetadata })` for metadata-only updates.
```

Author: done
